/*
  This file has information on the Brahmastra from Movies.
*/
Brahmāstra: Part One – Shiva (pronounced [bɾəɦmaːstrə]) is a 2022 Indian Hindi-language fantasy action-adventure film[c] written and directed by Ayan Mukerji and produced by Karan Johar, Apoorva Mehta, Namit Malhotra, and Mukerji (in his debut production) – under Dharma Productions, Starlight Pictures, and Prime Focus in association with Star Studios, along with Ranbir Kapoor and Marijke DeSouza. The film serves as the first installment of a planned trilogy, which is itself planned to be part of a cinematic universe titled Astraverse, and stars an ensemble cast including Amitabh Bachchan, Ranbir Kapoor, Alia Bhatt, Mouni Roy and Akkineni Nagarjuna. Drawing inspiration from tales in Hindu mythology, the story follows Shiva, an orphan musician with pyrokinetic powers who discovers that he is an astra, a weapon of enormous energy. He attempts to prevent the strongest of the astras, the Brahmāstra, from falling into the hands of dark forces that share a history with him.

The film was first conceived by Mukerji in 2011, with core elements being inspired by Indian history and stories he heard in his childhood. Its development was first revealed in July 2014 with a planned release for 2016, but its official announcement arrived in October 2017 revealing that the film would be titled Brahmāstra and would be a trilogy. Principal photography lasted from February 2018 to March 2022, with filming locations including Bulgaria, London, New York City, Edinburgh, Thailand, Manali, Mumbai and Varanasi. Production and release of the film was delayed multiple times, first due to production delays and monetary constraints, and later due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The film's songs are composed by Pritam, with soundtrack lyrics written by Amitabh Bhattacharya.

Brahmāstra: Part One – Shiva was theatrically released on 9 September 2022 in standard formats, 3D, 4DX and IMAX 3D by Star Studios in India, 20th Century Studios in North America, and by Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures worldwide. It is the first production released under the Star Studios[d] name following the acquisition of 21st Century Fox by Disney. The film received mixed reviews with praise for the visual effects, musical score and action sequences while criticism was mostly directed toward the screenplay, story and dialogues. The film emerged as a success at the box office, with an estimated gross of over ₹431 crore (US$54 million) worldwide, making it the highest-grossing Hindi film of 2022 and one of the highest grossing Indian film of 2022 and became the 20th highest-grossing Indian film of all time after completing theatrical run. Two sequels are being developed simultaneously and slated to release in December 2026 and 2027.